cool bananas my name is Jay I'm one of
the expert teachers of e2 language calm
in this lesson we're going to look at
IELTS writing task 2 and specifically
we're going to look at the opinion
questions of course when you take your
ions there are a variety of different
question types which you might get one
of them the double question advantages
disadvantages for example this one's the
opinion it's a little bit tricky the
other ones it's easy to see how to write
two paragraphs two body paragraphs
this time you need to think a little bit
more carefully so let's take a look at
it by the way before we begin please get
out a pen and a piece of paper because
we're going to write this essay from
beginning to end I'm going to show you
how to do it sentence by sentence and
the structure that I use if your grammar
and vocabulary is good enough this
warrants a high IELTS writing score
possibly even a nine if that's even
possible let's have a look at what I'm
talking about
so this is what you'll see on test day
this will be on a piece of paper in
front of you it says you should spend
about 40 minutes on this task write
about the following topic what you see
smack-bang in front of you is the
important thing it says some people
believe that eventually all jobs will be
done by artificially intelligent robots
what is your opinion ok so what are we
looking at here we're looking at a
statement where someone has given their
opinion and it's asking you for your
opinion your essay is going to be based
on this statement
let's stop before we do anything and
think about this question prompt again
because we need to generate ideas we
need to quote seems a bit strange to say
that we need to know what our opinion
actually is before we start writing only
when you form your opinion in your mind
and it may only take you a few seconds
or may take you 30 seconds then you'll
be ready to write but if you start
writing without having formed a good
opinion who knows in what direction
you'll end up going and we want to go in
a straight direction I'm going to show
you a structure that uses this so let's
read this again and let's have a closer
look at it it says some people believe
that eventually eventually that's a
keyword all jobs will be done or taken
over or carried out by artificially
intelligent robots in other words in the
future all jobs will be done by robots
it's a controversial statement what is
your opinion do you think that robots
will take over every type of job in the
future
or do you think that robots will just
take over some jobs and some other jobs
will always be done by humans these are
the sorts of questions we need to ask
ourselves before we start writing ok so
when I look at this question prompt I
kind of I largely agree with this
opinion my opinion is that I think most
jobs in the future most not all most and
there's a big difference there between
all and most most jobs will be done by
robots in the future some jobs however
will always be done by humans that's my
opinion on this question prompt right
let's have a look at this question
problem so there's a general statement
we're going to use this to form our
structure to write our essay so we need
to know what the parts of the question
prompt are the general statement says
some people believe that eventually all
jobs will be done by artificially
intelligent robots what's your opinion
fine what structure we're going to use
well we're going to do this we're going
to write a four paragraph essay we've
got to write at least 250 words so we've
got to write about 70 words for each
paragraph 6070 words and our paragraph 1
& 2 will in fact the
our opinion one and two so remember when
I said that I think most jobs will be
carried out by robots but some jobs will
always be human well there's my opinion
one bears my opinion too most and some
that's what my paragraphs are going to
be about there are my two opinions this
is the entire essay sentence by sentence
and this is what I want you to write I'm
going to show you my sentence then I
want you to write yours I'm going to
show you my second sentence - I want you
to write yours and we'll go through from
introduction right through to conclusion
you might be thinking in yourself well
this is too much for me to memorize
before the exam but if you look closely
you'll notice that the introduction and
the conclusion are exactly the same so
I'll show you a loser there'll be a
little bit of a difference but this one
says rewrite the general statement this
one says rewrite the general statement
this one says briefly mentioned opinion
one and two this one says briefly
mention opinion one and two this one
that says give your overall opinion and
this one says give your overall opinion
so in fact but not minute we're just
memorizing here three sentences not six
and if we look closely at paragraph one
and two you'll notice that the structure
is the same for each of these has
restate opinion one we state opinion to
give reasons give examples give reasons
give examples conclude opinion one
conclude opinion two so you're not
memorizing here how many sentences six
ten you're not memorizing fourteen
different sentences in fact you're just
memorizing the structure for seven
sentences and this will become your
entire essay this works this is a
structure that you want to take into
your exam on test day because a few
reasons why first of all when you have a
structure in your mind it takes a lot of
stress away because you know exactly how
to start you know
the next scent next said then you go all
the way through and you know exactly how
to end so it's stress relief right it's
also well as I'll show you at the end of
this lesson it's tied to the IELTS
criteria what that means is the IELTS
examiner's are looking for a certain
structure and this is it so let's get
started with it
how to write the introduction fine this
is the introduction it's going to be
three sentences we're going to rewrite
the general statement we're going to
briefly mention our opinion one and two
we're going to give our overall opinion
three sentence introduction so this is
it let's look at that first sentence
where we rewrite the general statement
what's the general statement well it's
in the question and it says some people
believe that eventually all jobs will be
done by robots so let's have a look what
I've done this is my example here here's
the general statement right some people
believe that eventually all jobs will be
done by artificially intelligent robots
here's my sentence artificially
intelligent robots are progressively
replacing humans in the workforce I
haven't gone with the awl because I
don't believe that but I've really
mirrored these two things say if I got
rid of this these two sentences apart
from some people eventually jobs will be
done by artificial intelligent robots
artificially intelligent robots are
progressively replacing humans in the
workforce now it's your turn you've seen
my sentence I want you to write your
rewrite this general statement I will
give you two minutes
no one minutes to write one sentence one
minute starts now
[Music]
you
see on YouTube by the way don't forget
to click like leave a comment it makes
me feel good
cool let me just check to see if
anyone's written any sentences Herrmann
has written a growing number of
population advocates that all pop know
all occupations will be substituted by
artificial intelligent robots in the
future okay you've written here a
growing number of the population
advocate know some people think not a
growing number of people think just some
people think I like this second half of
your sentence better home and you've
said if said you could start with
occupation occupation will be
substituted by artificial intelligent
robots in the future but by using all
you've started to get into an opinion we
want to avoid that so you might want to
just say you could say some people think
you could use those words again or you
could just say something like
occupations are increasingly being
substituted by artificial intelligent
robots something like that or they might
be might just use the word might
occupations might be substituted by
artificial intelligent robots in the
future that could be good
pseudo says these days artificially
intelligent robots are profoundly
replacing human requirements in many
works the word choice is a bit off but
you've got written a good sentence
you've mirrored that first sentence I
would say these days artificial
intelligent robots are profoundly are
increasingly replacing profoundly
replacing increasingly is a better word
increasingly replacing humans in jobs
keep it simple cool all right all right
all right Julia's written it is assumed
that the majority of jobs in the future
will be done by machines with artificial
intelligence beautiful well done Maria
some people perceive that jobs will be
overtaken by robot
in the future excellent that's the
ticket let's go back we've written our
first sentence of the introduction and
all we have done all we have done is
rewrite we've just rewritten that
general statement from the beginning
that was pretty easy now we move on to
sentence two we want to briefly mention
opinion one and to briefly mention
opinion wanted to let me show you mine
so let me read this it says while it is
possible that all menial jobs will
eventually be done by robots
unlikely that jobs that require human
contact will be taken over
so I briefly mentioned both of my
opinions opinion one all menial jobs
will eventually be done by robots let me
choose a different color here which is
red and here I've said I've said my
second opinion opinion too is it is
unlikely that jobs that require human
contact
will be taken over so they're my two
opinions menial by the way menial this
word here just means like unskilled jobs
unskilled or simple jobs easy jobs so
it's possible that easy jobs will be
done by robots but it's unlikely that
jobs that require human contact will be
done by robots
so now write your answer here briefly
mention opinion one and opinion two with
two minutes
[Music]
you
thirty seconds it's your opinion do you
think all jobs will be done by robots in
the future only a few jobs do you think
they'll be just restricted to factories
for example looking at sort of ratio is
all most some a few many majority
something like that let me have a look
at your sentences here Herman says
although the possibilities to replace
jobs is quite high there are some jobs
especially those which require human
relations that cannot be replaced good
well done
if you've mentioned both those opinions
that are it's very high highly likely
that jobs will be replaced by robots but
the ones that require human relations
won't be good well done haven't good
julia in my opinion it's more likely
that some jobs will be taken by robots
while others will still require the
presence of a human being
excellent you've got both your ideas in
there two opinions
Prabhakar says this is absolutely true
for some to some extent however there
are quite a few jobs which cannot be
done by robots great you've got your two
opinions in there that's looking good
let's move on to sentence three where we
give our overall opinion what does that
mean now last week I didn't do this but
I believe that this is a good inclusion
this essay will discuss and then blah
this essay will discuss why eventually
only very few jobs will be carried out
by people so what is your essay going to
discuss well the first sentence I
rewrote the general description the
second
sentence I gave both my opinions and I
said that I said two things in my second
sentence I said that most jobs will be
replaced
especially unskilled labor jobs will be
replaced but I said some jobs that
require human contact won't be replaced
now I've moved to my third sentence
where I give my overall opinion and you
know in many ways I'm saying the same
thing but I've just said this essay will
discuss why eventually only very few
jobs will be carried out by people so
you go ahead and write I want you to
memorize this phrase though this essay
will discuss and then you write your
particular overall opinion here one
minute
all right just let me check that chat to
see how people are going okay good how
much written this essay we'll discuss
the reasons why only particular jobs
will be replaced beautiful well done
blue said in my opinion in many hospital
sectors don't get too specific here in
the paragraphs we're going to get
specific in detail the introduction you
remain quite broad but what we're doing
is we're angry we're becoming specific
but it's not until you reach the
paragraphs that you get into details
proper care says sorry blue life says to
human okay that's fine
proper card this essay will discuss why
some jobs are going to be are going to
rely on humans rather than machines good
I like it well done Julia says this
essay will discuss why some jobs are
difficult to be taken by robots good
that sounds good
let's push on and look at first of all
look at my introduction then we'll look
at the paragraphs so my introduction
sounds like this artificially
intelligent robots are progressively
replacing humans in the workforce while
it is possible that all menial jobs will
eventually be done by robots it's
unlikely that jobs that require human
contact will be taken over this essay
will discuss by eventually only very few
jobs will be carried out by people all
right so what have I got here let me
choose a different color let me choose a
different color which is blue moons nice
so what have I done
well this sentence here I've rewritten
the general introduction the general
statement here in this sentence I've
given my two to opinions all menial jobs
will eventually be done by robots
unlikely the jobs that require human
contact will be taken over third
sentence are given my overall opinion
this essay will discuss why eventually
only very few jobs will be carried out
by people it's kind of hard to write
this introduction for the opinion
actually because
I think that the other essays is easier
in the other essay is to just say
overall the advantages outweigh the
disadvantages for example or with the
double question to come up with your
your your answer this one let me think
about this one I could possibly improve
this structure but let's keep going
let's keep going how to write paragraph
1 how to write paragraph one paragraph
one looks like this and this will be
your opinion 1 so what we do is we
restate opinion 1 from the introduction
we then give reasons we then give
examples and then we conclude let me
show you what I mean so we've restate
opinion 1 so in my introduction I wrote
while it's possible that all the menial
jobs will eventually be done by robots
so this is my opinion 1 this part here I
don't need this actually all menial jobs
are all unskilled jobs will eventually
be done by robots so I'm going to
restate that so let me restate that it
says this robots may eventually replace
all human labor that does not require
specific and complex human skills fine
that's what I've done so what I want you
to do is go back to your introduction
find out what your opinion 1 was and
then I want you to restate it in
different words and start to get a
little bit more detailed
all right let me have a look at some of
these sentences not yet here keep going
all right let's now have a look Herman
first off the mark
these argue that robots can automate
most human jobs these days most human
jobs most human most of humans jobs just
most human jobs it is argued that robots
can automate most human jobs these days
good introduction to this paragraph well
done because next you're going to give
reasons then you're going to give
examples then you're going to conclude
good my whole boob says artificial
intelligence and robotics are into
existence nowadays to replace less
effort human jobs ok I get it
artificial intelligent robots may
replace jobs these days that require
less effort good good
that's your opinion they're going to
replace jobs that require less effort
that makes sense that's a good first
sentence of your introduction Julia says
it's highly likely that a significant
number of jobs will be completed with
the use of artificial intelligence ok
then you've gotten in to your reasons or
your examples that's fine good first
sentence a sister says mundane tasks
which consumes significant amount of
time for humans can be carried out by
robots good I like it well done so we've
written the first sentence of our
paragraph one where we basically just
restated in other words our opinion our
first opinion from the introduction now
we're going to give reasons give reasons
why so let me just remind myself robots
may eventually replace all human labor
that does not require specific and
complex human skills why many companies
will turn to artificial intelligence
because it is far less expensive than
hiring training and employing a human
right that's my reason why it's less
expensive than hiring training and
employing a human cool up to you now
give reasons why elaborate on your first
opinion on the
first sentence of your paragraph one
all right let's have a look at these
reasons why have we got cumin
there are many compelling reasons of why
this trend is significantly fostering
that words not right cost is the most
obvious one good that's fine you've
written two sentences there but that's
fine and it leads it's going to lead
beautifully onto your examples you can
see why the reason and then the examples
come together the reason for then the
examples Maha vogue says accurately
program robots can execute the jobs
flawless more flawlessly than humans do
thus human errors can be eradicated
completely in the workplace
fantastic well that great sentences
plural you've written - that's fine the
structure the structures semi set ok you
can follow it sentence by sentence if
you want to add an extra sentence that's
fine that's the nature of language we
have to be flexible
gulia therefore many people especially
with special needs may benefit good
that's fine that carries on Maria there
are certain jobs that only a human being
can execute good cool fine so we've
given reasons why now we need to give
some examples this is pretty
straightforward give an example or two I
said in supermarkets in Australia for
example many cashiers have been replaced
by automated stations that cost far less
than employees I've written another
example in addition these automated
stations work around the clock and
require no holidays or holiday pay let's
go back I'm going to read your mind
sentence by sentence restated opinion
one robots may eventually replace all
human labor that does not require
specific and complex human skills many
companies will turn to artificial
intelligence because it is far less
expensive than hiring training and
employing a human in supermarkets in
Australia for example many cashiers have
been replaced by automated stations that
cost far less than
employees in addition these automated
stations work around the clock and
require no holidays or holiday pay now
up to you please give just give one
example in the exam you can give to but
let's throw one sentence a good example
that leads on from your reason you have
one minute
you
Oh guilty let's see what we've got here
we want some examples oh shoot that says
operational activities which have
patterns can be programmed into machines
which we result in completing the tasks
accurately and successfully within less
time
compared with humans I think that's your
reason we want to example now in Kerman
take registers for example it is
axiomatic that the efficiency of
managing automation mata mated machines
is much less exorbitant okay here's a
little tip when you start to use words
that are rare that are not frequent less
common complicated you have to be
certain that they're precise whatever
you do make sure your word choice is
precise because they're interesting
words exorbitant automation etc
axiomatic but they're not quite right I
mean actually Mattox fine but exorbitant
not quite right exorbitant refers to
money expense for example not efficiency
so make sure your work choice is correct
you may have to choose a word that's
simpler but it will serve a better
purpose because it will be more precise
a simpler precise word is much better
than a complicated imprecise word okay
to simplicity choose clarity maha bob
says for example automated teller
machines are used to deposit and
withdraw money in no time this has
tremendously eradicated human
intervention and saves time good well
done
Julie a for example in Japan the robots
as our helpers in supermarkets or at
home okay this sentence needs a bit of
work for example in Japan the robots as
a helpers in supermarkets or at home are
replacing people's jobs let me reword
this for example in Japan the robots
work as helpers in supermarkets
are increasingly replacing human jobs so
you needed to just pull that one
together a little bit more but good well
done let's push on sentence four we want
to conclude we want to wrap up this this
paragraph we want to wrap up or conclude
opinion once these reasons jobs that can
be replaced by robotic intelligence will
be replaced let's go back I'm going to
read all of mine again robots may
eventually replace all human labor that
does not require specific and complex
human skills many companies will turn to
artificial intelligence because it is
far less expensive than hiring training
and employing a human in supermarkets in
Australia for example many cashier to
have been replaced by automated stations
that cost far less than employees in
addition these automated stations work
around the clock and require no holidays
or holiday pay so these reasons jobs
that can be replaced by robotic
intelligence will be replaced cool and
you might notice this little phrase I've
I've UT you may want to use this as well
for these reasons because we gave the
reason and we gave the example and now
I'm referring back to them and saying
for these reasons blah blah blah try
this phrase in your next sentence
conclude your first opinion in one
sentence
all right how have you gone there let me
have a look at this chat good nice
sermons written all in all these
unskilled jobs have evident our evidence
our evidence of how machines are
progressively substituting the humans
workforce good well done you've repeated
the idea from the introduction in here
and that's fine because that's logical
structure and si flows from the
introduction into the paragraphs into
the conclusion the conclusion goes back
to the introduction the paragraphs
themselves have a cyclicals sort of
structure so that's fine good Julia for
these reasons computers and robots will
be involved in people's lives plural
more frequently in the future good
excellent that's fine if you haven't
finished that that's fine let's push on
so we've just written our paragraph one
which basically is our opinion one what
we did was we restated our opinion one
we gave reasons we gave examples and
then we concluded this is what my
paragraph looks like from beginning to
end
robots may eventually replace all human
labor that does not require specific and
complex human skills many companies will
turn to artificial intelligence because
it is far less expensive than hiring
training and employing a human in
supermarkets in Australia for example
many cashiers have been replaced by
automated stations that cost far less
than employees in addition these
automated stations work around the clock
and require no holidays or holiday pay
for these reasons jobs that can be
replaced by robotic intelligence will be
replaced cool how to write paragraphs -
well we just follow the same structure
we restate opinion - we give reasons
examples and we conclude opinion -
here's mine conversely now I've said
that because my
first paragraph was about jobs that
would be replaced or could be replaced
or that probably will be replaced my
paragraph - however
conversely there are some human jobs
that cannot be replaced because robots
will never achieve the capacity to do
them put simply some jobs require a
human touch these jobs include
psychology education medicine and Social
Work to name but a few robots will never
be able to achieve what has taken social
evolution hundreds of thousands of years
to achieve let's look at this closely
here I've restated my opinion to
remember in my introduction I said that
some jobs require human contact I've
said here conversely there are some
human jobs that cannot be replaced
because robots will never achieve the
capacity to do them ok fine
now I give my reason put simply some
jobs require a human touch it's a short
sentence and it's fine here I give my
example these jobs include psychology
education medicine and Social Work to
name but a few and here I conclude this
paragraph robots will never be able to
achieve what has taken social evolution
hundreds of thousands of years to
achieve so I've written my paragraph -
in exactly the same structure as I did
with my paragraph one fine let's move to
the conclusion the final part of the
essay it's going to have three sentences
if we look at it up close we're going to
basically actually let's go back you'll
notice this the conclusion is the same
as the introduction except here we here
we wrote this essay we'll here we don't
we don't write that ok but the structure
the same sentence one two three
same here one two three so sentence one
rewrite that general statement again it
said in the question if we remember
correctly some people believe that
eventually all jobs will be done by
artificially intelligent row
lots I've said it is increasingly likely
that robots will end most human
employment
I haven't said all I've said most this
sentence is very similar very similar
it's maybe not identical in meaning but
it's very similar in meaning to the
first sentence of my introduction ok
I've basically just rewritten that again
in different words now I want you to do
that
rewrite that general statement again and
put your answer in there if you're
watching this on youtube please put your
comments into the comments below you can
put your sentences in if you like and do
click like and subscribe
and let's have a look at those sentences
what have you got here Herman to sum up
good that's fine you can begin your
conclusion with to sum up or in summary
or in conclusion it appears to me that
there are considerations a considerable
number of occupations that may be taken
by robots beautiful well done no comma
after that that's the only problem there
that there you don't need a comma Julia
to conclude the significant amount of
people's jobs will be conducted by
artificial intelligence in the future
good a significant a significant number
of people's jobs will be conducted by
artificially artificial intelligence in
the future good a significant number of
jobs will be conducted by artificial
intelligence in the future excellent if
you're still writing a sentence that's
fine let's push on we've rewritten the
general statement now we're going to
briefly mention opinion one and two
again mine says this unskilled laborer
will eventually be done entirely by
robots however sophisticated jobs that
require human specific skills will
always exist again let's look at it
closely what are my two opinions here
I've said unskilled labor will be done
entirely by robots first opinion however
so I balanced this like a seesaw using
however sophisticated jobs that requires
human specific skills will always exist
they were my two opinions exactly the
same from my introduction first one the
second one I put them both into a
sentence and interestingly I've used
this here put a semicolon comma sorry
semicolon and a comma here with the word
however now I did this because I'm
trying to balance two ideas here I can't
start my sentence and say
ah while while opinion one opinion - or
I can say opinion one however opinion -
that's one way to balance two ideas in a
single sentence so you may want to use
or copy this particular structure here
if it works if you're confident if it
works so your turn write your answer
briefly mentioned opinion one and
opinion two again the hard sentence I'll
give you two four minutes
if you want you can write two separate
sentences you don't necessarily have to
write a complex sentence with both ideas
let me have a look at what you guys have
written I'm inclined to believe that
robots will dominate in some activities
however human labor will be in the
priority in sophisticated fields go well
done you've balanced your two ideas
there good good good what else we got
Herman while this is true there are few
humans ah well this is true there are
few humans labor mm okay how do I say
this there's little labor that will will
be replaced very little labor hold on
one second I've just got a premise alarm
off of my office ah
all right let me look at that one again
Herman while this is true there are a
few human labor that will never be
replaced um you could say few jobs there
are a few jobs that will never be
replaced sometimes choosing the noun
like that labor or jobs there a few
labor doesn't quite work you need to say
few jobs few jobs cool
marvel to conclude in the future less
skilled jobs will be expected executed
by robotic machines semicolon wearers
comma high-skilled jobs need human
intelligence and effort beautiful Maria
despite the fact that we are living in
an advanced technological world comma I
still believe that artificial
intelligence cannot do some of some of
some human jobs beautiful I love that
well done cool though agree written the
second sentence we now are up to our
final sentence where we give our overall
opinion and I've said this ultimately
comma very few jobs will be safe in an
increasingly artificially intelligent
workforce I probably should have said
very few human jobs let me change that
let me change that right now very few
human very few human jobs will be safe
in an increasingly artificially
intelligent world this is my final
sentence I want to make it powerful I've
used this ultimately comma here which
works really well and I've it what I've
said follows on from everything I said
in my introduction my paragraph one my
paragraph two and I've just summarized
it down and if we remember correctly
from the the question it said all jobs
will be replaced by robots in the future
and what I'm saying is ultimately very
few human jobs will be safe in an
increasingly artificially intelligent
workforce I've used some crazy double
adverbs here and an adjective anyway you
might want to use this ultimate try that
if you want otherwise you can write your
final sentence whoops there we go
final sentence one minute
you
let me have a look here all right all
right all right
AHA boom consequently only fewer fewer
work you can't do few and labor you
can't do few and work you have to do few
jobs only a few few sorry only fewer
work-related activities sorry you're
right you can do it with activities
consequently only fewer work-related
activities can be accomplished by robots
which doesn't require much skills ok
yeah make it simple make it simpler
as a consequence few work-related
activities can be accomplished by robots
which don't require much skill singular
good Julia ultimately comma skillful
jobs which are effectively done by
people may not be completely replaced by
machines I love it that's a nice
sentence well done cool if you're still
writing that's ok that my friends is the
end of your essay let me read you my
conclusion it says it is increasingly
likely that robots will end most human
employment unskilled labor will
eventually be done entirely by robots
however sophisticated jobs that require
human specific skills will always exist
ultimately very few jobs will be safe in
an increasingly artificially intelligent
workforce
that's the essay we've just written it
from beginning to end this is what it
will look like on your paper what we
want to do is we want to get the format
right just before I do that I've got to
say that in the aisle you're going to be
writing with a pencil and paper and I
don't know about you but I I never do
that and I haven't done that for many
many years
not since I was a child so actually when
I took the IELTS and I did that I found
it difficult it's probably a good idea
to practice
a pen and paper anyway paragraph 1 here
it is here I sorry my introduction here
my paragraph 1 which is my opinion the
pinyin one remember that was my opinion
one here's my paragraph 2 this was my
opinion too and then we wrote the
conclusion here
excellent and you'll notice that I've
kept a space in between my paragraphs I
didn't invent it there's no need to you
just need to put a space in between it
Oh
244 words now I can I I did this when I
took the IELTS and I did the writing I
didn't write enough words I wrote my
essay and I thought easy now I'll relax
and have a stretch and then I looked at
I thought I wonder if that's 250 words
and so I did a little bit of mathematics
where I counted how many words were in
the first line and then I counted the
number of lines I multiplied the two and
I got to about 230 not 20 words short or
around that I can't remember exactly and
I thought to myself oh my god I'm 20
words short the IELTS can these
documents and they know precisely how
many words you've written so what do you
do if you get stuck and you're short on
words well you need to get to 250 so
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
look at this paragraph and I'm going to
think I'm going to have to add an
example or add a reason so what I do
here is I what you'll probably have to
do on test day is through a line and and
write your your extra information but
here I've just added another example or
another reason I said they require the
sophisticated social skills of a person
bla bla bla bla bla I've brought my word
count up to 257 words so that's done
right just before I let you go I want to
talk to you a little bit about what the
examiners look for in your writing there
are four things you need to be conscious
of four things
first of all to do right on topic right
on topic well yes we have because we've
used that question prompt so much in our
essay we rewrote that general statement
and and we did the opinion one the
opinion two again and again again don't
deviate from the question prompt it's
hard to do in this webinar but what you
have to do on test day is keep that
piece of paper right in front of you
every few minutes looked up and look at
that question prompt and make sure
you're writing about that because if you
it's very easy to go off-topic and to
just writing writing writing you think
if this is beautiful I'm writing a
beautiful paragraph and then you look at
the question prompting you think oh my
god it's nothing to do with that opinion
that they're asking me in the question
prompt so stick on topic did you use
precise vocabulary well I as I said
before it's better to be simple and
clear rather than to be complexed and
unclear what about this essay well I've
said words like progressively replacing
that's nice
I've said menial jobs that's good
vocabulary eventually find unlikely
that's a nice word very few jobs that's
a nice phrase carried out that's a
phrasal verb that's okay replaced
that's a nice verb specific skills or
complex skills that's a nice phrase
there so mine contains not just a wide
range of vocabulary that's the first
thing the second thing is is your
vocabulary precise is the meaning clear
that's critical and also think about
vocabulary not just a single words
you're not trying to just put in single
words you're trying to put in those
phrases those phrases those there is a
human contact
there's collocations are carried out
replaced labor again this specific
skills these types of phrases and
collocations are critically important
ok next accurate grammar fine well in
English a lot of the grammar has to do
with your verb tenses are your verb
tenses accurate have you used the right
verb tense simple past present simple
all that sort of stuff let's have a
quick look at mine so I've used are
replacing I've used the present
continuous here because it's happening
at the moment so that's correct
ok it is possible that all minier jobs
will be done future it's unlikely the
jobs bla bla bla bla
this si will this is also future
although it's only briefly into the
future but still the correct verb will
discuss will discuss robots may
eventually replace present simple
because I've got this may replace here
I've got a negative etc anyway I don't
want to go into too much detail but verb
tenses are critical singular and plural
nouns are critical is it one robot or
many robots at one job or many jobs is
it labor or Labor's we can't do Labor's
so you got to do labor so there's a
little exception for you also one last
thing I want to point out is our
articles articles articles I'm scanning
my eyes over am I seeing any articles ah
to do and I can't say any fine I'll move
on logical structure well this is a
logical structure what happens is your
introduction creates a little cycle your
paragraph creates a little cycle and
your second one
the same and they link back to the first
sentence same with your conclusion it
does a little cycle an overall your
essay does a big cycle your introduction
connects to your conclusion and what
happens is you create a logical flow
from sentence to sentence from paragraph
to paragraph from introduction to
conclusion back to introduction this is
called coherent and that is what the
IELTS examiner's are looking for in your
essays cool that's all
ah let me quickly answer some questions
on Q&A but then we'll leave it there if
you're watching on youtube click like
click subscribe and leave a comment it
makes me feel good as a teacher if you
say something nice or say something
terrible I'm also open to criticism cool
let's do this let's go to Q&A and let me
stop recording